Add draft for Jan newsletter (2022) (#2262)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: communications/newsletters/newsletter_31_Jan2022.md

The Turing Way Newsletter: 31 January 2022

# January Round-Up, next Fireside Chat and other updates from The Turing Way

Hello Turing Way friends!

We hope you had a good start to the year 2022! ⭐️

It has been lovely to see many of you at our January’s Collaboration Café and we hope to connect with you in the coming weeks.
Here are a few opportunities to engage with *The Turing Way* community:

> * 🍵 Join the Collaboration Café on 2 February (this is today!), from 15:00 - 17:00 London time (see [details](https://hackmd.io/@turingway/collaboration-cafe)).

Reviewer: `from 15:00 to 17:00`

Author: ```suggestion
* 🍵 Join the Collaboration Café on 2 February (this is today!), from 15:00 to 17:00 London time (see [details](https://hackmd.io/@turingway/collaboration-cafe)).
```

* 🔥 Attend the Fireside Chat on *Gaps and Opportunities for Inclusive Multilingual Data Science* - 11 February, 14:00 - 15:30 UTC ([register](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/fireside-chat-gaps-opportunities-for-inclusive-multilingual-data-science-tickets-255972068347)).
* 💼 Apply for the Community Manager positions at The Alan Turing Institute to work closely with *The Turing Way*.
* 👋 Sign  up to attend a short workshop on Facilitating Inclusive Events online on 14 and 18 February. 

> Read on for details, updates on new chapters,  👇

Author: ```suggestion
Read on for details, updates on new chapters and other news from the project!
```

Reviewer: Aaaaah, how’d I miss this!

> 

Author: ```suggestion

_Thanks to Achintya Rao for reviewing an earlier draft of this newsletter! 🌻_

```

On 11 February 2022, 14:00 - 15:30 UTC ([in your timezone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/london/2022-02-11/14:00/ttw-fireside-chat)), the next fireside chat will take place on the topic: **Gaps & Opportunities for Inclusive, Multilingual Data Science**. 
Chaired by Anelda van der Walt and Malvika Sharan, this panel will feature insights from Batool Almarzouq, Bobby Shabangu, Camila Rangel-Smith, David Pérez-Suárez, Langa Khumalo and Yanina Bellini Saibene. 
These researchers represent different communities with expertise and insights from working in multilingual research and data science projects (read their bios below). 
We will also facilitate open discussions with attendees to learn about their perspectives on the topic via a shared document.
Please register via [the Eventbrite page](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/fireside-chat-gaps-opportunities-for-inclusive-multilingual-data-science-tickets-255972068347).

### Collaboration Cafés

We resumed *The Turing Way* Collaboration Cafés in January and had a chance to catch up with several of our community members.

> The next one is on **2 February (Today!), from 15:00 - 17:00 UTC** ([see in your timezone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/london/2022-02-02/15:00/)).

Reviewer: `from 15:00 to 17:00`

> Collaboration Cafes are collaborative spaces for you to connect with *The Turing Way* team, share your ideas and exchange feedback.

Reviewer: “Cafés” for consistency.

Author: ```suggestion
Collaboration Cafés are collaborative spaces for you to connect with *The Turing Way* team, share your ideas and exchange feedback.
```

Hosted every first and third Wednesday, these are also opportunities for us to onboard new members and share what we are working on.
Save the dates for the next calls on 16 February and 2 March.
Sign up on this shared HackMD: [hackmd.io/@turingway/collaboration-cafe](https://hackmd.io/@turingway/collaboration-cafe).

### Weekly Coworking Calls

> We host a weekly Coworking Call **every week on Monday from 11:00 - 12:00** London time.

Reviewer: `from 11:00 to 12:00`

Author: ```suggestion
We host a weekly Coworking Call **every week on Monday from 11:00 to 12:00** London time.
```

Find details about these calls in this shared HackMD: [hackmd.io/@turingway/coworking-call](https://hackmd.io/@turingway/coworking-call).

### Workshop: Facilitating Collaborative Sessions

Many of you expressed interest to host Collaboration Cafés or Coworking Calls but also expressed your interest in attending a guided session on facilitating such events online.
Therefore, Malvika will be hosting two short **workshops on Facilitating Collaborative Sessions** such as those organised in *The Turing Way* community.
Please sign up by selecting one of the two sessions:
* [Register for the Workshop-1](https://turing-uk.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJMscuqsrj4jEtboVuSPRv1OYlfdWt4zOXKa): **14 February, 17:00 to 18:00 UTC** ([see in your timezone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/london/2022-02-14/17:00/))
* [Register for the Workshop-2](https://turing-uk.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJMvdu-hqTwrGdSnAzuBnjztYBi9_mv7bz7Q): **18 February, 10:00 - 11:00 UTC** ([see in your timezone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/london/2022-02-18/10:00/))

## News from the community

![Illustration showing two people saying Welcome!](images/2022-01-welcome-2.png)

> *The Turing Way Community, & Scriberia. (2021). Illustrations from the Turing Way book dashes. Zenodo. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3332807*

Reviewer: Mention licence, possibly?

Author: ```suggestion
*The Turing Way Community, & Scriberia. (2021). Illustrations from the Turing Way book dashes shared under the CC BY 4.0 License. Zenodo. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3332807*
```

### Jobs at Turing!

Apply for **Community Manager roles** within the *AI for Multiple Long Term Conditions Research Support Facility*.
The Community Manager for *Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement* will work with researchers to elevate the voices of people living with multiple long term conditions, their family members and carers: [apply here](https://cezanneondemand.intervieweb.it/turing/jobs/community_manager_patient_and_public_involvement_and_engagement_aim_rsf_19281). 
The Open Collaboration Community Manager will work with Theme Lead with researchers to deliver scientific community building and training: [apply here](https://cezanneondemand.intervieweb.it/turing/jobs/community_manager_open_collaboration_aim_rsf_19278).
Both positions have a central role in laying the groundwork for inclusive co-creation and contribute to *The Turing Way* acting as a bi-directional conduit to implement best practices for data science.
The **deadline for application is 6 February 2022**.

> Please see this [Twitter thread by Kirstie Whitaker](https://twitter.com/turingway/status/1486685227858767874?s=20&t=6Jqhf-4GJ58rD0LgwTCFWg).

Author: ```suggestion
Please see this [Twitter thread by Kirstie Whitaker](https://twitter.com/turingway/status/1486685227858767874.
```

### Capturing Impact from Your Work

![screenshot of Kisrtie’s Tweet saying - Hey folks! An end of year request please Have you used The Turing Way? For any purpose! Helped you work reproducibly? Inspired a project? Introduced you to someone cool? It would be amazing if you could reply so I can follow up & capture this impact.](images/2022-01-kwtweet-3.png)

> *[Kirstie’s Tweet](https://twitter.com/kirstie_j/status/1469060341606801410?s=20&t=6Jqhf-4GJ58rD0LgwTCFWg) invites The Turing Way users and contributors to share how this project has helped their work.*

Reviewer: Strip tracking here too.

Author: ```suggestion
*[Kirstie’s Tweet](https://twitter.com/kirstie_j/status/1469060341606801410) invites The Turing Way users and contributors to share how this project has helped their work.*
```

He has worked as an engineer in diverse projects in digital humanities and life sciences, developing expertise in natural language processing, linked open data and software sustainability. 
Carlos obtained his PhD in Computer Science at the University of Exeter and worked on various research projects at the University of Exeter and Plymouth University before moving to the Netherlands. 
He is a certified Software Carpentry instructor and is frequently involved in organising training events.
As a member of *The Turing Way* core team, he supports researchers from eScience Center in sharing internally developed resources and recommended practices for the [Netherlands eScience Center guide](https://guide.esciencecenter.nl/#/) to *The Turing Way*.

![Carlos Martinez's headshot](images/2022-01-carlos-4.png)

In his words:
> We always advocate for software reuse and collaborative development of software. 
> I love that we can do the same for software development guidelines: reuse content from the eScience guide and collaboratively develop with The Turing Way community!
> I am a big advocate of improving software quality. 

> > I am really glad that the eScience center is collaborating with The Turing Way in providing guidelines and helping build better research software.

Author: ```suggestion
> I am really glad that the eScience Center is collaborating with The Turing Way in providing guidelines and helping build better research software.
```

> > I am really glad that the eScience center is collaborating with The Turing Way in providing guidelines and helping build better research software.

Author: ```suggestion
> I am really glad that the eScience Center is collaborating with The Turing Way in providing guidelines and helping build better research software.
```

> Thanks to Carlos’ work at organisation level.

Author: ```suggestion
Thanks to Carlos’ work at the organisation level.
```

> Thanks to Carlos’ work at organisation level.

Author: ```suggestion
Thanks to Carlos’ work at the organisation level.
```

* Nina di Cara published a chapter on [self-reflection guidance for ethical research](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/ethical-research/self-reflection.html).
* Faruk D., Abel Siqiera and Carlos Martinez worked on [Software Citation with CITATION.cff](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/communication/citable/citable-cff.html) and using [CFFLint](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/communication/citable/citable-cffinit.html).
* Margaret Wanjiku added the [documentation and metadata](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/rdm/rdm-metadata.html) subchapter in the Research Data Management chapter.
* Vicky Hellon revised and updated the [Open Access](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/open/open-access.html) publication subchapter.
* Malvika ana Alejandro Coca added a simple guidance for chairing [Collaboration Café](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coworking/coworking-collabcafe.html#chairing-an-online-collaboration-cafe) and [Coworking Calls](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coworking/coworking-weekly.html#chairing-coworking-calls).

> *Have an idea for collaborations or a chapter? [Connect with us](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#get-in-touch). Please explore [issues]() and Pull Requests](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/pulls) to collaborate with others on ongoing work.*

Reviewer: Missing link for issues: https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/issues

Author: ```suggestion
*Have an idea for collaborations or a chapter? [Connect with us](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#get-in-touch). Please explore [issues](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/issues) and Pull Requests](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/pulls) to collaborate with others on ongoing work.*
```

## News and Announcements from Software Sustainability Institute

### Collaboration Workshop 2022: Register and Submit abstract!

> [Collaborations Workshop 2022 (CW22)](https://software.ac.uk/cw22) will take place online from Monday 4 April - Thursday 7 April 2022.

Author: ```suggestion
[Collaborations Workshop 2022 (CW22)](https://software.ac.uk/cw22) will take place online from Monday 4 April to Thursday 7 April 2022.
```

The Software Sustainability Institute’s Collaborations Workshop series brings together researchers, developers, innovators, managers, funders, publishers, policy-makers, leaders and educators to explore best practices and the future of research software. 

> The themes of the CW22 keynote presentations, discussion groups, mini-workshops, collaborative ideas, and hack day will be around the following areas of research software: Code Review, Ethics, Hybrid Working, and Software Sustainability. 

Reviewer: Also after “Working”?

> The themes of the CW22 keynote presentations, discussion groups, mini-workshops, collaborative ideas, and hack day will be around the following areas of research software: Code Review, Ethics, Hybrid Working, and Software Sustainability. 

Author: ```suggestion
The themes of the CW22 keynote presentations, discussion groups, mini-workshops, collaborative ideas and hack day will be around the following areas of research software: Code Review, Ethics, Hybrid Working and Software Sustainability. 
```

To find out more information including registration, agenda, call for submissions (deadline is 4 February) and how to sponsor the unconference, please visit the CW22 website: [https://software.ac.uk/cw22](https://software.ac.uk/cw22).

### 2022 Fellows Announced!

![The Software Sustainability Institute 2022 Fellows Banner with their picture](images/2022-01-ssi-5.png)

22 new Software Sustainability Institute Fellows have joined the fellows' network in 2022.
In addition, for the first time, four International Fellows were selected under the International Fellowship pilot! 
Two of these fellows are **Sophia Batchelor and Bastian Greshake Tzovaras** who are *The Turing Way* contributors and researchers collaborating on the [AutSPACEs](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/AutSPACEs) and [Open Humans](https://www.openhumans.org/) project. 
Congrats to all the fellows! Read [more about them](https://www.software.ac.uk/news/announcing-2022-software-sustainability-institute-fellows).

## Twitter

![Screenshot of 4 tweets in a pciture.](images/2022-01-tweetcollage-6.png)

> **1** [Sara El-Gebali](https://twitter.com/yalahowy/status/1469362864259579910?s=20&t=6Jqhf-4GJ58rD0LgwTCFWg) tweeted a picture of her cat co-watching December’s fireside chat with her.

Author: ```suggestion
**1** [Sara El-Gebali](https://twitter.com/yalahowy/status/1469362864259579910) tweeted a picture of her cat co-watching December’s fireside chat with her.
```

> **2** Cassandra Gould van Praag recently released a training video introducing version control with GitLab. See [her tweet](https://twitter.com/cassgvp/status/1484606620286038016?s=20&t=6Jqhf-4GJ58rD0LgwTCFWg) for links to her talk along with other training videos.
> **3** Data Stewardship Council shares The Turing Way illustration on FAIR in a [recent tweet](https://twitter.com/DeltaCouncil/status/1480689241612976131?s=20&t=6Jqhf-4GJ58rD0LgwTCFWg).
> **4** Katie McDonough recommended The Turing Way in [her tweet](https://twitter.com/khetiwe24/status/1484167069058973703?s=20&t=6Jqhf-4GJ58rD0LgwTCFWg) as part of an independent study on machine learning in Digital Humanities.

Author: ```suggestion
**2** Cassandra Gould van Praag recently released a training video introducing version control with GitLab. See [her tweet](https://twitter.com/cassgvp/status/1484606620286038016) for links to her talk along with other training videos.
**3** Data Stewardship Council shares The Turing Way illustration on FAIR in a [recent tweet](https://twitter.com/DeltaCouncil/status/1480689241612976131).
**4** Katie McDonough recommended The Turing Way in [her tweet](https://twitter.com/khetiwe24/status/1484167069058973703) as part of an independent study on machine learning in Digital Humanities.
```

*The Fireside Chat series features experts, champions and their projects from across different international communities in reproducibility, open research, ethics, collaboration and everything in between.*

On 11 February 2022, 14:00 - 15:30 UTC ([in your timezone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/london/2022-02-11/14:00/ttw-fireside-chat)), the next fireside chat will take place on the topic: **Gaps & Opportunities for Inclusive, Multilingual Data Science**. 
Chaired by Anelda van der Walt and Malvika Sharan, this panel will feature insights from Batool Almarzouq, Bobby Shabangu, Camila Rangel-Smith, David Pérez-Suárez, Langa Khumalo and Yanina Bellini Saibene. 
These researchers represent different communities with expertise and insights from working in multilingual research and data science projects (read their bios below). 
We will also facilitate open discussions with attendees to learn about their perspectives on the topic via a shared document.
Please register via [the Eventbrite page](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/fireside-chat-gaps-opportunities-for-inclusive-multilingual-data-science-tickets-255972068347).

### Collaboration Cafés

> We resumed *The Turing Way* Collaboration Cafés in January and had a chance to catch up with several of our community members.

Author: ```suggestion
We had a chance to catch up with several of you at the *The Turing Way* Collaboration Cafés.
```

> The next one is on **2 February (Today!), from 15:00 to 17:00 UTC** ([see in your timezone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/london/2022-02-02/15:00/)).

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Collaboration Cafés are collaborative spaces for you to connect with *The Turing Way* team, share your ideas and exchange feedback.

Author: ```suggestion
Taking place every first and third Wednesday for 2 hours from 15:00 to 17:00 UTC ([see in your timezone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/london/2022-02-16/15:00/)), Collaboration Cafés are collaborative spaces for you to connect with *The Turing Way* team, share your ideas and exchange feedback.
```

> Hosted every first and third Wednesday, these are also opportunities for us to onboard new members and share what we are working on.

Author: ```suggestion
These are also opportunities for us to onboard new members and share what we are working on.
```
